MandelBox

Algorithm copied from this excellent app: http://digitalfreepen.com/mandelbox370/

All the slider boxes work the same way:
* Press and hold to either side of center to affect parameter(s) in specified direction and speed.
* Double Tap to toggle Fast versus Slow editing. (Gray vs Green background color)

Note: Single tap on any widget to give it the FOCUS.
      It will gain a red colored border.
      Click and drag on the image to apply the movement to the widget.
      The widgets' Fast vs Slow edit style affects the movements.

Note: Discovered a bug that is so useful I am calling it a feature:
  Give any widget the focus,
  then drag and hold on the image to command that widget to continually update.
  While still holding down on the image, tap any other widget to give it the focus, then release the hold.
  Because the focus was changed, the first widget never receives the 'mouse release message',
  and so will continue to auto update until you press the widget itself at a later time.
  I use this bug to get the forward motion widget to auto update, while I navigate around with 'rotate'.

Note: Double Tap on the image to toggle FULL SCREEN mode.

A. "Move"  Jog Camera position
   Controls left/right, up/down movement.

B. Move camera position
   Controls forward/back movement of the camera.

C. "Zoom"
   Changing the width of the field of view effects a zoom effect.

D. "Scale Factor"
   MandelBox parameter controlling degree of box and sphere folding.

E. "S"
   Toggle stereo mode on/off.
   Image is rendered twice, for 'cross-eyed' 3D viewing.
   With the iPad held two feet away, slightly cross your eyes so that there is a third image in the middle.
   Relax your gaze, and concentrate only on that middle image, which is in 3D.

F. "Parallax"
   Controls the amount of stereo effect.
   Not all vistas work well in stereo, and each may need parallax adjustment for best effect.
   When it Does work, the results are fantastic!

G. "F"
   Not really fog, but a way to darken objects according to distance.
   Lower values render faster as well.

H. "C"
   Adjust contrast.

I. "B"
   Adjust Blinn lighting effect, from smooth to extremely harsh.

J. "Rec", or "R ##"
   Start recording. During a recording session the button shows the number of keyframes recorded.
   Set all the widget settings as you like, then press this button to start a recording session.
   Then use "Move" and "Rotate" widgets to navigate to a new position,
   and press "Rec" again to store the next keyframe.
   Note: keyframes only record the position and view direction, not changes you make to other widgets.

K. "Play"
   Once a least two keyframes are recorded, press this button to begin a playback session.
   Playback automatically rewinds to the beginning.
   Press this button a second time to stop playback.
   Note: when playback is started, all the widgets are returned to the settings you started
   with when making the recording. But during playback, only the camera position and aim are
   affected; you are free to change all the other widget settings as playback progresses.

L. "25" ... "800"
   Controls the 'speed' of playback by setting the number of frames
   that are rendered between recorded keyframes.
   Press this button to cycle through the various settings.

M. "Rsave"
   Launch the Recording Save/Load dialog.

N. "Sphere"
   Mandelbox uses three parameters to control spherical folding.
   This widget conrols the first two.

O. "Sphere M"
   Third spherical folding parameter controls the Sphere scaling factor.

P. "Box"
   Mandelbox uses two parameters to determine Box folding. Both are controlled here.

Q. "R","G","B"
   Each widget controls two aspects of its assigned red, green or blue color.

R. "Julia XY"
   When Julia set style is enabled (see below),
   this widget controls the X and Y coordinates of the Julia point.

S. "Julia Z"
   When Julia set style is enabled (see below),
   this widget controls the Z coordinate of the Julia point.

T. Julia enable
   Toggle switch enables the Julia set style.

U. "Reset""
   Reset all params.

V. "Light XY"
   Control X,Y coordinates of the light.

W. "Light Z"
   Control Z coordinate of the light.

X. "Save/Load"
   Launch save/load dialog for widget settings.

Y. "B"
   I have no mathematical abilities, but I was reading about the burning ship algorithm,
   and how it is just like the Mandelbrot algorithm except for using the
   absolute value of a function term.  So, in the shader I added the following :
   v = clamp(v, -control.box1, control.box1) * control.box2 - v;
   if(control.burningShip) v = -abs(v);   <<---- added this
   Has a dramatic effect, including resemblance to the burning ship fractal in some regions.

Z. "Res:Low", "Res:High"
   Press this to toggle image resolution between Low and High.
   Use Low resolution to quickly navigate to region of interest, then switch to Hi for viewing.

1. "epsilon"
   MandelBox parameter specifies how accurately we determine the mandelbox surface.
   Smaller values (on the left side) result in finer resolution (and slower rendering).

2. "Rotate"
   Press anywhere to rotate camera in semi-controllable fashion. (algorithm needs work)

